Brand Recognizer is an application that intends to help people who are not familiar with the many different brands we have in the world. The idea is to take a picture of the logo you do not know about and have the application recognize for you which brand it is, and present additional information about the company if the user wants to know more about that particular brand. Ideally, we plan for the application to have user login so that we can keep track of the user search results and recommend more brands that the user would like.
The main feature of the app is using the camera of the phone to take a picture of a logo, and receive information about said logo. We hope to also implement the ability for users to choose pictures of logos currently in their local storage and upload that to the app, and getting information about the brand. The most important part is the implementation of the API, where we send the image using a http request and receive information about the image and analyze the results. We would likely also need another API to display information about the particular brand. We also plan on creating a user login and authentication page that allow users to login with their social network accounts. This would allow us to store previous search results from the user, as well as allowing the user to view their previous searches. This increases the convenience for the user, as they can just search through their history for a certain brand rather than constantly taking pictures of the same logo.
	One of the challenges we have is finding an API that can perform the brand recognition with high accuracy. There are several different APIs, such as Clearbit, Google Vision, and Logograb, that accomplish logo recognition, but some are exclusive for companies and require a licensing fee. Other APIs are available but they may have few features or very poor accuracy which makes it useless for recognizing logos and brands. Also, the API needs to be able to recognize logos on clothing, shoes and accessories  where the logo may be small or distorted. The color can also be a problem, because the logo could blend in with the item, making it hard for the app to isolate the logo.
Another challenge is creating an recommendation engine which we might have to develop or implement an algorithm ourselves or find an API that does it for us. The algorithm would likely implement machine learning, with the user getting recommendations on what they might be interested in buying. However, this is a feature that is very unlikely to be implemented during the duration of this class, as none of us are familiar with machine learning. We all have experience Java from our classes, however most of our group doesn’t have experience in Android development and that could pose a challenge to learning everything on the fly and not creating the most efficient and well designed application. Ryan has some experience with Firebase and Hersh knows a little SQL. Samir has not worked with a database system before. We would also have to learn about interacting with databases, as we need to store user information and extract past user results. Finally, the last challenge would be to compress the image to a reasonable size and resolution that the image analysis API could support, while also having the benefit of saving precious mobile data.
